# Authentication Api
Our REST api exposes 2 main APIs which act as microservices. The first of which is the authentication endpoint where one creates a user account, and use it to perform operations on the other api once he's authenticated.

We give here a brief overview of some of the implementation of this endpoint.

You can view the specificiation for this api in the project `api-user` and the implemetation of the server in `spring-server-users`. Or better, you can launch the application and view the swagger documentation on `localhost:6060/api`.

## Endpoints
Our main two endpoints in this api are implemented in a way to separate between Admin (System Administrator) and the regular user operations. All admin operations are done on `/api/users/**` paths. For this we generate the AdminApi. This endpoint obviously deals will the users resources, to which the admin has total control (except for changing passwords or updating a user's profile of course). 

The other operations are implemented on other endpoints that are designed as commands, to make it easier for the user to know what he is doing. For example `/authentications` is where we can authenticate and retrieve the jwt token that we need and `passwords` is where a user goes to change his password.

## Filters
Each api commes with its own custom filters and here they are more or less alike. The important thing to remember here is JWT token. Each request to our api is intercepted in our Interceptor classes that extends the spring `HandlerInterceptorAdapter` and treat it to decide whether to process the request down the chain.

We have 2 interceptors to distinguish between the Admin and the regular user. Both interceptors verify the jwt token and its duration. Each jwt token has a claim to it to identify whether a user is the admin or not, and whether they are blocked or not by the admin, since the admin has the power to do that. So while the AdminInterceptor checks for the `isAdmin` claim, the JwtInterceptor checks for the `isBlocked` claim for the users.

**Note** The block mechanism is not done at the authentifications. Technically a blocked user can still authenticate, but the jwt token her receives has the claim that he is blocked and prevents him from doing any operations in the api, unless unblocked by the admin. This is slightly different that what was described in the functionalities required for blocking initially.

The paths on which the different interceptors intercept the request is done in the `WebConfig`

## Controllers
All admin operations are implemented in `AdminAPIController`, while regular user operations are implemented in `UsersrAPIController`. The stubs for these controllers were generated by swagger in the target folder and we implement in our own controllers.

## Services
We introduced services for convenience. They make the Controller code very concise and clear.

## Exception Handling
All exceptions are caught in `UserRestExceptionHandler` that extends`ResponseEntityExceptionHandler`. It uses a custom class `API Error` heavily inspired by a tutorial we found on google but we unfortunately lost the link. This class provides clearer, more consice exception messages to the api user.

## Cucumber Tests
### admin scenarios
Background : there is a Users server, an admin and an admin token<br>
Scenarios : getting an admin token and getting all users
### creation scenarios
Background : there is a Users server<br>
Scenarios : creating a user and failling when no username or password provided
### user scenarios
Background : there is a valid user payload, we post it and then we post his credentials to get a jwt token<br>
Scenarios : updating a user profile
